>> Jen Kramer: All right, now that
we have finished our HTML form, so
we've added all of the form
fields to our form.
Our form currently does
absolutely nothing.
So this next part that we need to add to
the form is actually all of the things to
make it do something.
The thing we want it to do is we want it
to take whatever we type into the form.
We're gonna dump it into an email and
we're gonna send that email off
to you as the website owner.
So if you return to the notes for today,
this is the
frontendmastersgithub.io/bootcamp/forms.
You could go through here and refer to all
of the things we've talked about today.
So the form tag is here.
I'm gonna talk more about
that in just a second.
We've also talked about
the input type of text.
The input type of tel, email, date,
number, radio, check box,
text area and select.
So as you take a look at all of those,
they have descriptions of what they are.
We have links to where you
can read more about them on
the Mozilla Developer Network and
there is a short example of how
these things can be used in a form.
So you can take a look at that, as well.
And of course,
we talked a lot about the label tag.
The one type that is listed here
that we have not talked about yet,
which will momentarily
is input type of hidden.
I'm gonna say something
about that in just a moment.
So now that we actually have the whole
form built out at this point,
let's go ahead and add the programming
to make that form do something.
So here, we have a section of this
website that is devoted to adding
the processing to the form.
So generally speaking, the way that
processing is gonna happen is,
it's going to happen on the web server and
you don't have the background
to write that kind of code yet.
I don't have that kind of background to
write the code even though I've been in
this business for a really long time.
So I always partner with someone
who knows what they're doing.
And Brent who was our fabulous back-end
developer wrote us a great little script
to go ahead and do exactly what we
requested which is fill out the form, and
it will email the results
of that form to us.
And so what Brent has told
us to do is the following.
So we wanna make sure to take
the action of the form here.
So that's the action attribute
that goes in the form tag.
This is the link that we need to use and
then we need to use the method of post.
So these are two attributes
that go with the form tag.
Let's go ahead and add those.
So here inside of VS code around line 13,
you should find your form tag.
And what we'll do then is
just copy that big, long URL.
Go ahead and copy it.
>> Jen Kramer: And
then we'll go ahead and paste this.
So this is going to be
the action of our forum.
>> Jen Kramer: And your developer
will always give you that action.
So it could be anything,
you'll just have to ask your
developer what you should be using.
So the next thing we're going to
add is the method for this form.
The method is how the information in
the form is transmitted to the server.
So getting post are the two most
common methodologies that are used.
The get methodology sends
the information over the URL.
The post will send it behind the scenes
and Brent told us to use post.
So go ahead and choose post.
All right, so
now that we have the action and
the method set here, there's more
information that he that he gave us.
>> Jen Kramer: So it says here that we're
gonna need to configure a hidden input
field and
the name of that should be send to and
the value should be the email address that
you use to register for boot camp, okay?
So again, first thinking about security
of this particular script and here is
an easy way for us to be able to configure
what email address description go to and
an easy way to do that it's just simply
putting in and hidden field in your HTML.
That way, we don't have to open up
the script and configure it and
deal the servers.
None of us need that headache.
So the way to add a hidden field
is just up here just above
the section on adding
processing to the form.
And as you see here,
the hidden form fields are sometimes
used with form processing scripts.
They are always used, but
they are occasionally use.
There could be as few as one.
There could be dozens of these.
It sort of depends on the developer and
how they wrote it.
There might be none and your processing
script developer will tell you
what to use for the ID,
the name and the value.
So what I'm gonna do here is just
copy line three on this code.
You don't need the form tag here.
There's only one form tag per page.
Just copy this middle part here
about the input type of hidden.
So go ahead and
highlight that, and copy it.
>> Jen Kramer: And then in our form, we
can put the hidden tag absolutely anywhere
at all as long as it's
inside of the form tag.
I'm gonna put mine right
here after the form tag and
then we need to modify this
according to what Brent had said.
So he indicated that the name should be
send_ to and that the value should be
the email address that you use
to sign up for this boot camp.
So here's mine.
>> Jen Kramer: Ask for the ID,
the idea actually strictly isn't required.
This is a hidden field.
And so no label tag is required,
because it doesn't need to be accessible.
So therefore, we actually we
don't need an ID on this either.
If you leave the ID in there,
it's not gonna hurt anything.
I'm just gonna take mine out,
because it's just not needed.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, so
if we go ahead and save that,
we can put that into our default browser.
>> Jen Kramer: And at this point, if you
go ahead and click the submit button,
you'll actually get an error
on the second page that says,
please provide your email address and
that is actually error checking that
is happening on the server side.
So the whole contents of the form
have been submitted to the server.
One of the first things that script is
gonna do is check to make sure that
certain required fields are filled out and
not a lot of junk has been sent over.
It's one of the ways you can hack
a website is through sending odd things
through fields and forms.
So Brent put some error
checking in there and
this indicates that we should
be providing email address.
So and in fact, if they do this again,
it will ask me for my name also.
Those are the two required
fields on this form.
So I'm gonna go ahead and
put in my name and I'm gonna go ahead, and
put in my email address.
>> Jen Kramer: And now when I submit this,
this is gonna give me a message on
the screen here that says
that the message was sent.
So if I check my email now,
I should find an email message
from this particular script.